Remove non-existant functions and add brew install instructions (#3030)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-policy/v0.1.x (beta)/docs/policy/reference/functions/contains_substring.mdx

---
page_title: core::contains_substring function
description: >-

>   Reference for the core::contains_substring function used to check if a string contains a substring in policy files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Reference for the core::contains_substring function used to check if a string contains a substring in Terraform policy files.
```

I might be overthinking this.

## Signature

```hcl
core::contains_substring(str, substr)
```

## Arguments

| Argument | Required | Type | Description |
|----------|----------|------|-------------|
| `str` | Yes | String | The string to search within. |
| `substr` | Yes | String | The substring to search for. |

## Return value

Returns `true` if the `str` argument contains the value of the `substr` argument, `false` otherwise.

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate the use of substring checking for specific use cases.

### Validate strings in configuration

In the following example, the `core::contains_substring` function checks if a description value contains the specified string.

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_security_group" "description_requirements" {
  enforce {
    condition     = core::contains_substring(attrs.description, "Managed by Terraform")
    error_message = "Security group description must include 'Managed by Terraform'"
  }
}
```

### Check resource tags for environment substring

In the following example, the `core::contains_substring` function validates that resource names include an environment indicator.

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_instance" "environment_in_name" {
  locals {

>     has_dev = core::contains_substring(attrs.tags.Name, "dev")

Reviewer: Here and elsewhere in the file - `locals` are formatted "ragged", while other parts of samples are aligned on the `=`.  Regular TF aligns `'locals` on `=` - if it's the same convention for tfpolicy, please align.  If not...that's interesting.

    has_staging = core::contains_substring(attrs.tags.Name, "staging")
    has_prod = core::contains_substring(attrs.tags.Name, "prod")
    has_valid_env = local.has_dev || local.has_staging || local.has_prod
  }

  enforce {
    condition     = local.has_valid_env
    error_message = "Instance name must contain one of: dev, staging, prod"
  }
}
```

### Check for prohibited substrings in resource name

> In the following example, the `core::contains_substring` function ensures resource names don't contain prohibited terms.

Reviewer: I like the examples you chose.  They do a good job of illustrating how the function works, _and_ potential practical uses.

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_iam_role" "no_admin_in_name" {
  locals {
    name_lower = core::lower(attrs.name)
    has_admin = core::contains_substring(local.name_lower, "admin")
    has_root = core::contains_substring(local.name_lower, "root")
    has_superuser = core::contains_substring(local.name_lower, "superuser")
    has_prohibited = local.has_admin || local.has_root || local.has_superuser
  }

  enforce {
    condition     = !local.has_prohibited
    error_message = "IAM role name cannot contain prohibited terms: admin, root, superuser"
  }
}
```

### Check for case-insensitive substring

> In the following example, the `core::contains_substring` function performs case-insensitive substring matching by converting both strings to lowercase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the policy performs case-insensitive substring matching by converting the string to search to lowercase before passing it to the `core::contains_substring` function.
```

Again, I might be overthinking this.  But since `core::contains_substring` isn't doing the converting...

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_s3_bucket" "case_insensitive_check" {
  locals {
    bucket_lower = core::lower(attrs.bucket)

>     contains_backup = core::contains_substring(bucket_lower, "backup")

Reviewer 2: `bucket_lower` needs the `local.` prefix — as written this fails with "no variable named bucket_lower".
